GO:0035538	carbohydrate response element binding	Binding to a carbohydrate response element (ChoRE) found in the promoters of genes whose expression is regulated in response to carbohydrates, such as the triglyceride synthesis genes.
GO:0034219	carbohydrate transmembrane transport	The process in which a carbohydrate is transported across a membrane.
GO:0032985	protein-carbohydrate complex disassembly	The disaggregation of a protein-carbohydrate complex into its constituent components.
GO:0141024	adhesion of symbiont to host cell surface via host membrane carbohydrate	The attachment of a symbiont to its host by binding to a carbohydrate on the host cell surface. The host is defined as the larger of the organisms involved in a symbiotic interaction.
GO:0052575	carbohydrate localization	Any process in which a carbohydrate is transported to, or maintained in, a specific location. Carbohydrates are any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0052576	carbohydrate storage	The accumulation and maintenance in cells or tissues of carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0009743	response to carbohydrate	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a carbohydrate stimulus.
GO:0009756	carbohydrate mediated signaling	The series of molecular signals mediated by the detection of carbohydrate.
GO:0009758	carbohydrate utilization	A series of processes that forms an integrated mechanism by which a cell or an organism detects the depletion of primary carbohydrate sources,usually glucose, and then activates genes to scavenge the last traces of the primary carbohydrate source and to transport and metabolize alternate carbohydrate sources. The utilization process begins when the cell or organism detects carbohydrate levels, includes the activation of genes whose products detect, transport or metabolize carbohydrates, and ends when the carbohydrate is incorporated into the cell or organism's metabolism.
GO:0009730	detection of carbohydrate stimulus	The series of events in which a carbohydrate stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal.
GO:0032992	protein-carbohydrate complex	A macromolecular complex containing separate protein and carbohydrate molecules. Separate in this context means not covalently bound to each other.
GO:0033231	carbohydrate export	The directed movement of carbohydrates out of a cell or organelle.
GO:0005402	carbohydrate:monoatomic cation symporter activity	Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: sugar(out) + cation(out) = sugar(in) + cation(in).
GO:0005975	carbohydrate metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0005351	carbohydrate:proton symporter activity	Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: carbohydrate(out) + H+(out) = carbohydrate(in) + H+(in).
GO:0030246	carbohydrate binding	Binding to a carbohydrate, which includes monosaccharides, oligosaccharides and polysaccharides as well as substances derived from monosaccharides by reduction of the carbonyl group (alditols), by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes, ketones, or carboxylic acids, or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group(s) by a hydrogen atom. Cyclitols are generally not regarded as carbohydrates.
GO:0019203	carbohydrate phosphatase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: carbohydrate phosphate + H2O = carbohydrate + phosphate.
GO:0019200	carbohydrate kinase activity	Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group, usually from ATP, to a carbohydrate substrate molecule.
GO:1901136	carbohydrate derivative catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrate derivative.
GO:1901135	carbohydrate derivative metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate derivative.
GO:1901137	carbohydrate derivative biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrate derivative.
GO:1901264	carbohydrate derivative transport	The directed movement of a carbohydrate derivative into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0043470	regulation of carbohydrate catabolic process	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates.
GO:0043255	regulation of carbohydrate biosynthetic process	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates.
GO:0043212	carbohydrate-exporting ABC transporter activity	Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: ATP + H2O + carbohydrate(in) -> ADP + phosphate + carbohydrate(out).
GO:0043211	ABC-type carbohydrate transporter activity	Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: ATP + H2O = ADP + phosphate, to directly drive the transport of carbohydrates and their derivatives across a membrane.
GO:1901505	carbohydrate derivative transmembrane transporter activity	Enables the transfer of carbohydrate derivative from one side of a membrane to the other.
GO:0043610	regulation of carbohydrate utilization	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of carbohydrate utilization.
GO:0098704	carbohydrate import across plasma membrane	The directed movement of a carbohydrate from outside of a cell, across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol.
GO:0097367	carbohydrate derivative binding	Binding to a carbohydrate derivative.
GO:0016857	racemase and epimerase activity, acting on carbohydrates and derivatives	Catalysis of a reaction that alters the configuration of one or more chiral centers in a carbohydrate molecule.
GO:0016051	carbohydrate biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0016052	carbohydrate catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0120153	calcium-dependent carbohydrate binding	Binding to a carbohydrate in the presence of calcium.
GO:0045913	positive regulation of carbohydrate metabolic process	Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate.
GO:0045912	negative regulation of carbohydrate metabolic process	Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate.
GO:0006109	regulation of carbohydrate metabolic process	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates.
GO:0008643	carbohydrate transport	The directed movement of carbohydrate into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Carbohydrates are a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0033500	carbohydrate homeostasis	A homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell.
GO:0046835	carbohydrate phosphorylation	The process of introducing a phosphate group into a carbohydrate, any organic compound based on the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0071322	cellular response to carbohydrate stimulus	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a carbohydrate stimulus.
GO:0071823	protein-carbohydrate complex subunit organization	Any process in which macromolecules aggregate, disaggregate, or are modified, resulting in the formation, disassembly, or alteration of a protein-carbohydrate complex.
GO:0015144	carbohydrate transmembrane transporter activity	Enables the transfer of carbohydrate from one side of a membrane to the other.
GO:0015608	carbohydrate-importing ABC transporter activity	Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: ATP + H2O + carbohydrate(out) -> ADP + phosphate + carbohydrate(in).
GO:0031960	response to corticosteroid	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a corticosteroid hormone stimulus. A corticosteroid is a steroid hormone that is produced in the adrenal cortex. Corticosteroids are involved in a wide range of physiologic systems such as stress response, immune response and regulation of inflammation, carbohydrate metabolism, protein catabolism, blood electrolyte levels, and behavior. They include glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids.
GO:0048029	monosaccharide binding	Binding to a monosaccharide. Monosaccharides are the simplest carbohydrates; they are polyhydroxy aldehydes H[CH(OH)]nC(=O)H or polyhydroxy ketones H[CHOH]nC(=O)[CHOH]mH with three or more carbon atoms. They form the constitutional repeating units of oligo- and polysaccharides.
GO:0009061	anaerobic respiration	The enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds (especially carbohydrates and fats) which uses compounds other than oxygen (e.g. nitrate, sulfate) as the terminal electron acceptor.
GO:0009060	aerobic respiration	The enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds (especially carbohydrates and fats) which requires oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor.
GO:0009050	glycopeptide catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycopeptides, a compound in which carbohydrate is covalently attached to an oligopeptide composed of residues of L and/or D-amino acids. The term usually denotes a product of proteolytic degradation of a glycoprotein but includes glycated peptide.
GO:0061678	Entner-Doudoroff pathway	A cellular carbohydrate catabolic process that converts a carbohydrate to pyruvate and either glyceraldehyde or glyceraldehyde-3 phosphate by dehydration and aldol cleavage via a gluconate or 6-phosphogluconate intermediate.
GO:0060256	regulation of flocculation	Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of the non-sexual aggregation of single-celled organisms.
GO:0060049	regulation of protein glycosylation	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of protein glycosylation. Protein glycosylation is the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid, e.g. the addition of glycan chains to proteins.
GO:0060051	negative regulation of protein glycosylation	Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein. Protein glycosylation is the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid, e.g. the addition of glycan chains to proteins.
GO:0060050	positive regulation of protein glycosylation	Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein. Protein glycosylation is the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid, e.g. the addition of glycan chains to proteins.
GO:0035373	chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan binding	Binding to a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan, any proteoglycan containing chondroitin sulfate as the glycosaminoglycan carbohydrate unit.
GO:0009227	nucleotide-sugar catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleotide-sugars, any nucleotide-carbohydrate in which the distal phosphoric residue of a nucleoside 5'-diphosphate is in glycosidic linkage with a monosaccharide or monosaccharide derivative.
GO:0009226	nucleotide-sugar biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotide-sugars, any nucleotide-carbohydrate in which the distal phosphoric residue of a nucleoside 5'-diphosphate is in glycosidic linkage with a monosaccharide or monosaccharide derivative.
GO:0009225	nucleotide-sugar metabolic process	The cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotide-sugars, any nucleotide-carbohydrate in which the distal phosphoric residue of a nucleoside 5'-diphosphate is in glycosidic linkage with a monosaccharide or monosaccharide derivative.
GO:0009247	glycolipid biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycolipid, a class of 1,2-di-O-acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part (usually a mono-, di- or tri-saccharide).
GO:0009255	Entner-Doudoroff pathway through 6-phosphogluconate	A pathway that converts a carbohydrate to pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3 phosphate by producing 6-phosphogluconate and then dehydrating it.
GO:0009277	fungal-type cell wall	A rigid yet dynamic structure surrounding the plasma membrane that affords protection from stresses and contributes to cell morphogenesis, consisting of extensively cross-linked glycoproteins and carbohydrates. The glycoproteins may be modified with N- or O-linked carbohydrates, or glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchors; the polysaccharides are primarily branched glucans, including beta-linked and alpha-linked glucans, and may also include chitin and other carbohydrate polymers, but not cellulose or pectin. Enzymes involved in cell wall biosynthesis are also found in the cell wall. Note that some forms of fungi develop a capsule outside of the cell wall under certain circumstances; this is considered a separate structure.
GO:0009401	phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar phosphotransferase system	The uptake and phosphorylation of specific carbohydrates from the extracellular environment; uptake and phosphorylation are coupled, making the PTS a link between the uptake and metabolism of sugars; phosphoenolpyruvate is the original phosphate donor; phosphoenolpyruvate passes the phosphate via a signal transduction pathway, to enzyme 1 (E1), which in turn passes it on to the histidine protein, HPr; the next step in the system involves sugar-specific membrane-bound complex, enzyme 2 (EII), which transports the sugar into the cell; it includes the sugar permease, which catalyzes the transport reactions; EII is usually divided into three different domains, EIIA, EIIB, and EIIC.
GO:0036071	N-glycan fucosylation	The process of transferring a fucosyl group to an N-glycan. An N-glycan is the carbohydrate portion of an N-glycoprotein when attached to a nitrogen from asparagine or arginine side-chains.
GO:0061704	glycolytic process from sucrose	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a sucrose into pyruvate, with the concomitant production of a small amount of ATP and the reduction of NAD(P) to NAD(P)H. Glycolysis begins with the metabolism of a carbohydrate to generate products that can enter the pathway and ends with the production of pyruvate. Pyruvate may be converted to acetyl-coenzyme A, ethanol, lactate, or other small molecules.
GO:0061706	glycolytic process from sucrose through glucose and fructose	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of sucrose into pyruvate through both glucose and fructose intermediates, with the concomitant production of a small amount of ATP and the reduction of NAD(P) to NAD(P)H. Glycolysis begins with the metabolism of a carbohydrate to generate products that can enter the pathway and ends with the production of pyruvate. Pyruvate may be converted to acetyl-coenzyme A, ethanol, lactate, or other small molecules.
GO:0061620	glycolytic process through glucose-6-phosphate	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate, occurring through a glucose-6-phosphate intermediate, with the concomitant production of a small amount of ATP.
GO:0061621	canonical glycolysis	The glycolytic process that begins with the conversion of glucose to glucose-6-phosphate by glucokinase activity. Glycolytic processes are the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate, with the concomitant production of a small amount of ATP.
GO:0061622	glycolytic process through glucose-1-phosphate	The chemical reactions and pathways through a glucose-1-phosphate intermediate that result in the catabolism of a carbohydrate into pyruvate, with the concomitant production of a small amount of ATP.
GO:0061864	basement membrane constituent secretion	The controlled release of molecules that form the basement membrane, including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell.
GO:0141217	RNA glycosylation	The posttranscriptional addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to residues in an RNA molecule.
GO:0051413	response to cortisone	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a cortisone stimulus. Cortisone is a natural glucocorticoid steroid hormone that is metabolically convertible to cortisol. Cortisone is synthesized from cholesterol in the cortex of the adrenal gland under the stimulation of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH). The main physiological effect of cortisone is on carbohydrate metabolism; it can stimulate increased glucose release from the liver, increased liver glycogen synthesis, and decreased utilization of glucose by the tissues.
GO:0051468	detection of glucocorticoid hormone stimulus	The series of events by which a glucocorticoid hormone stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal. Glucocorticoids are hormonal C21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol with the ability to bind with the cortisol receptor and trigger similar effects. Glucocorticoids act primarily on carbohydrate and protein metabolism, and have anti-inflammatory effects.
GO:0051384	response to glucocorticoid	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a glucocorticoid stimulus. Glucocorticoids are hormonal C21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol with the ability to bind with the cortisol receptor and trigger similar effects. Glucocorticoids act primarily on carbohydrate and protein metabolism, and have anti-inflammatory effects.
GO:0050901	leukocyte tethering or rolling	Transient adhesive interactions between leukocytes and endothelial cells lining blood vessels. Carbohydrates on circulating leukocytes bind selectins on the vessel wall causing the leukocytes to slow down and roll along the inner surface of the vessel wall. During this rolling motion, transitory bonds are formed and broken between selectins and their ligands. Typically the first step in cellular extravasation (the movement of leukocytes out of the circulatory system, towards the site of tissue damage or infection).
GO:0050738	fructosyltransferase activity	Catalysis of the transfer of a fructosyl group to an acceptor molecule, typically another carbohydrate or a lipid.
GO:0050698	proteoglycan sulfotransferase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate + proteoglycan = adenosine 3',5'-bisphosphate + proteoglycan sulfate. A proteoglycan is a glycoprotein whose carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans.
GO:0050694	galactose 3-O-sulfotransferase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: N-acetyllactosamine + 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate = 3-sulfo-N-acetyllactosamine + adenosine 3',5'-bisphosphate. N-acetyllactosamine residues are found in a number of different carbohydrate types. N-acetyllactosamine can also be written as Gal-beta-(1,4)-GlcNAc.
GO:0010404	cell wall hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving a cell wall hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein that consist of a core-protein backbone O-glycosylated by one or more complex carbohydrates.
GO:0010384	cell wall proteoglycan metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving cell wall peptidoglycan, a group of glycoproteins that consist of a core-protein backbone O-glycosylated by one or more complex carbohydrates.
GO:0052763	ulvan lyase activity	Catalysis of the cleavage of a carbon-oxygen bond in ulvan, a carbohydrate composed of a repeating structure of [->4)-beta-D-GlcA-(1,4)-alpha-L-Rha 3S-(1->4)-alpha-L-IdoA-(1->4)-alpha-L-Rha 3S-(1-]n. Continued digest of ulvan with an enzyme that can catalyze this reaction results in ulvanobiouronic acid A 3-sulfate [->4)-beta-D-GlcpA-(1->4)-alpha-L-Rhap 3-sulfate-(1-]n with 4-deoxy-L-threo-hex-4-enopyranosiduronic acid at the non-reducing end.
GO:0051119	sugar transmembrane transporter activity	Enables the transfer of a sugar from one side of a membrane to the other. A sugar is any member of a class of sweet, water-soluble, crystallizable carbohydrates, which are the monosaccharides and smaller oligosaccharides.
GO:0140513	nuclear protein-containing complex	A stable assembly of two or more macromolecules, i.e. proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates or lipids, in which at least one component is a protein and the constituent parts function together in the nucleus.
GO:0034651	cortisol biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cortisol, the steroid hormone 11-beta-17,21-trihydroxypregn-4-ene-3,20-dione. Cortisol is synthesized from cholesterol in the adrenal gland and controls carbohydrate, fat and protein metabolism and has anti-inflammatory properties.
GO:0034650	cortisol metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving cortisol, the steroid hormone 11-beta-17,21-trihydroxypregn-4-ene-3,20-dione. Cortisol is synthesized from cholesterol in the adrenal gland and controls carbohydrate, fat and protein metabolism and has anti-inflammatory properties.
GO:0032991	protein-containing complex	A stable assembly of two or more macromolecules, i.e. proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates or lipids, in which at least one component is a protein and the constituent parts function together.
GO:0033095	aleurone grain	A membrane-bounded storage granule found in cells of the aleurone layer in plants; contains either a protein matrix, protein-carbohydrate bodies and/or globoids. Aleurone grains are formed by the vacuole, rough endoplasmic reticulum and dictyosomes.
GO:1902729	negative regulation of proteoglycan biosynthetic process	Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteoglycans, any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans.
GO:1902730	positive regulation of proteoglycan biosynthetic process	Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteoglycans, any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans.
GO:0008211	glucocorticoid metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids, hormonal C21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol. Glucocorticoids act primarily on carbohydrate and protein metabolism, and have anti-inflammatory effects.
GO:0030395	lactose binding	Binding to lactose, a disaccharide of glucose and galactose, the carbohydrate of milk.
GO:0005996	monosaccharide metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving monosaccharides, the simplest carbohydrates. They are polyhydric alcohols containing either an aldehyde or a keto group and between three to ten or more carbon atoms. They form the constitutional repeating units of oligo- and polysaccharides.
GO:0030982	adventurous gliding motility	A process involved in the controlled movement of a bacterial cell powered by the rearward secretion of carbohydrate slime.
GO:0030167	proteoglycan catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of proteoglycans, any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans.
GO:0030166	proteoglycan biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteoglycans, any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans.
GO:0030309	poly-N-acetyllactosamine metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving poly-N-acetyllactosamine, a carbohydrate composed of N-acetyllactosamine repeats (Gal-beta-1,4-GlcNAc-beta-1,3)n.
GO:0030310	poly-N-acetyllactosamine catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of poly-N-acetyllactosamine, a carbohydrate composed of N-acetyllactosamine repeats (Gal-beta-1,4-GlcNAc-beta-1,3)n.
GO:0030311	poly-N-acetyllactosamine biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of poly-N-acetyllactosamine, a carbohydrate composed of N-acetyllactosamine repeats (Gal-beta-1,4-GlcNAc-beta-1,3)n.
GO:0005618	cell wall	The rigid or semi-rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant, fungal, most prokaryotic cells and some protozoan parasites, maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis. In plants it is made of cellulose and, often, lignin; in fungi it is composed largely of polysaccharides; in bacteria it is composed of peptidoglycan; in protozoan parasites such as Giardia species, it's made of carbohydrates and proteins.
GO:0042285	xylosyltransferase activity	Catalysis of the transfer of a xylosyl group to an acceptor molecule, typically another carbohydrate or a lipid.
GO:0003330	regulation of extracellular matrix constituent secretion	Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix, including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells.
GO:0003331	positive regulation of extracellular matrix constituent secretion	Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix, including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells.
GO:0003332	negative regulation of extracellular matrix constituent secretion	Any process that decreases the rate, frequency, or extent the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix, including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells.
GO:1990840	response to lectin	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a lectin stimulus. A lectin is a carbohydrate-binding protein, highly specific for binding sugar moieties.
GO:1990858	cellular response to lectin	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a lectin stimulus. A lectin is a carbohydrate-binding protein, highly specific for binding sugar moieties.
GO:0043592	exosporium	The outermost layer of a bacterial endospore, which is loosely attached and located outside of the endospore coat. It is generally composed of protein, carbohydrate, and perhaps lipid.
GO:0004576	oligosaccharyl transferase activity	Catalysis of the transfer of a oligosaccharyl group to an acceptor molecule, typically another carbohydrate or a lipid.
GO:0043465	regulation of fermentation	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of fermentation, the anaerobic enzymatic conversion of organic compounds, especially carbohydrates, to other compounds, especially to ethyl alcohol, resulting in energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP).
GO:0018280	protein S-linked glycosylation	A protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via a sulfur atom of a peptidyl-amino-acid such as cysteine or methionine.
GO:0018103	protein C-linked glycosylation	A protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via a C atom.
GO:0043394	proteoglycan binding	Binding to a proteoglycan, any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans.
GO:0043395	heparan sulfate proteoglycan binding	Binding to a heparan sulfate proteoglycan, any proteoglycan containing heparan sulfate as the glycosaminoglycan carbohydrate unit.
GO:0018245	protein O-linked glycosylation via tyrosine	The glycosylation of protein via the O4' atom of peptidyl-tyrosine, O4'-glycosyl-L-tyrosine; the carbohydrate is glucose, the origin for glycogen.
GO:0045053	protein retention in Golgi apparatus	The retention of proteins within the Golgi apparatus. Golgi-localized carbohydrate-modifying enzymes have a short N-terminal domain that faces the cytosol, a single transmembrane alpha helix, and a large C-terminal domain that faces the Golgi lumen and that contains the catalytic site. How the membrane-spanning alpha helix in a Golgi enzyme causes its localization and prevents its movement to the plasma membrane is not known.
GO:0070085	glycosylation	The covalent attachment and further modification of carbohydrate residues to a substrate molecule.
GO:0045488	pectin metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving pectin, a group of galacturonic acid-containing, water-soluble colloidal carbohydrates of high molecular weight and of net negative charge.
GO:0045333	cellular respiration	The enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds (especially carbohydrates and fats) which either requires oxygen (aerobic respiration) or does not (anaerobic respiration).
GO:0070278	extracellular matrix constituent secretion	The controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix, including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell.
GO:0070254	mucus secretion	The regulated release of mucus by the mucosa. Mucus is a viscous slimy secretion consisting of mucins and various inorganic salts dissolved in water, with suspended epithelial cells and leukocytes. The mucosa, or mucous membrane, is the membrane covered with epithelium that lines the tubular organs of the body. Mucins are carbohydrate-rich glycoproteins that have a lubricating and protective function.
GO:0045173	O-sialoglycoprotein catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of O-sialoglycoproteins, glycoproteins which contain sialic acid as one of their carbohydrates. They are often found on or in the cell or tissue membranes and participate in a variety of biological activities.
GO:0097570	cyst wall	The specialized envelope lying outside the cell membrane of a cyst. A cyst is a resting or dormant stage of a microorganism, usually a bacterium or a protist or rarely an invertebrate animal, that helps the organism to survive in unfavorable environmental conditions. In protists such as protozoan parasites alternating cystic- and non-cystic stages, the cyst wall is usually composed of carbohydrates and proteins.
GO:0097466	ubiquitin-dependent glycoprotein ERAD pathway	An ERAD pathway whereby endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident glycoproteins are targeted for degradation. Includes differential processing of the glycoprotein sugar chains, retrotranslocation to the cytosol and degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. A glycoprotein is a compound in which a carbohydrate component is covalently bound to a protein component.
GO:0097741	mastigoneme	A hair-like structure covering the flagella found in some algae (heterokonts and cryptophytes). It is approximately 15 nm in diameter, and usually consist of a tubular shaft that itself terminates in smaller hairs. It is composed of glycoproteins and, likely, carbohydrates. Mastigonemes may assist in locomotion by increasing the surface area of a flagellum.
GO:0004873	asialoglycoprotein receptor activity	Receiving an asialoglycoprotein, and delivering the asialoglycoprotein into the cell via endocytosis. An asialoglycoprotein is a plasma glycoproteins from which the terminal sialic acid residue on their complex carbohydrate groups has been removed. The asialoglycoprotein receptor recognizes the terminal galactose and N-acetylgalactosamine units of the asialoglycoprotein, the receptor-ligand complex is internalized and transported to a sorting organelle where disassociation occurs before the receptor is recycled to the cell membrane.
GO:0016232	HNK-1 sulfotransferase activity	Catalysis of the synthesis of the HKK-1 carbohydrate epitope; adds a sulfate group to a precursor, GlcA-beta-(1->3)-Gal-beta-(1->4)-GlcNAc-beta-(1->R), forming sulfo-3GlcA-beta-(1->3)-Gal-beta-(1->4)-GlcNAc-beta-(1->R).
GO:0016266	O-glycan processing	The stepwise addition of carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative residues to the initially added O-linked residue (usually GalNAc) to form a core O-glycan structure.
GO:0016267	core 1 O-glycan biosynthetic process	The stepwise addition of carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative residues to the initially added O-linked residue (usually GalNAc) to form the core 1 O-glycan structure, Gal-beta-(1->3)-GalNAc. Core 1 occurs on most glycoproteins, and is often substituted with sialic acid residues or with various other sugars.
GO:0016268	core 2 O-glycan biosynthetic process	The stepwise addition of carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative residues to the initially added O-linked residue (usually GalNAc or Core 1) to form the core 2 O-glycan structure, GlcNAc-beta-(1->6)[Gal-beta-(1->3)]-GalNAc.
GO:0016269	core 3 O-glycan biosynthetic process	The stepwise addition of carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative residues to the initially added O-linked residue (usually GalNAc) to form the core 3 O-glycan structure, GlcNAc-beta-(1->3)-GalNAc.
GO:0120240	platelet glycocalyx	The carbohydrate rich layer at the outermost periphery of a platelet.
GO:0120238	sperm glycocalyx	The carbohydrate rich layer at the outermost periphery of a sperm cell.
GO:0120239	vascular endothelial glycocalyx	The carbohydrate-rich layer lining the vascular endothelium connected to the endothelium through a variety of molecules, mainly proteoglycans and glycoproteins. These form a network in which soluble molecules, either plasma- or endothelium-derived, are incorporated.
GO:0160015	platelet rolling	Transient adhesive interactions between platelets and endothelial cells lining blood vessels. Carbohydrates on circulating platelets bind selectins or other molecules on the vessel wall causing the platelets to slow down and roll along the inner surface of the vessel wall. During this rolling motion, transitory bonds are formed and broken between surface molecules of platelets and endothelium.
GO:0006505	GPI anchor metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchors, molecular mechanisms for attaching membrane proteins to the lipid bilayer of cell membranes. Structurally they consist of a molecule of phosphatidylinositol to which is linked, via the C-6 hydroxyl of the inositol, a carbohydrate chain. This chain is in turn linked to the protein through an ethanolamine phosphate group, the amino group of which is in amide linkage with the C-terminal carboxyl of the protein chain, the phosphate group being esterified to the C-6 hydroxyl of the terminal mannose of the core carbohydrate chain.
GO:0006506	GPI anchor biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor that attaches some membrane proteins to the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane. The phosphatidylinositol group is linked via the C-6 hydroxyl residue of inositol to a carbohydrate chain which is itself linked to the protein via an ethanolamine phosphate group, its amino group forming an amide linkage with the C-terminal carboxyl of the protein. Some GPI anchors have variants on this canonical linkage.
GO:0006486	protein glycosylation	A protein modification process that results in the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid, e.g. the addition of glycan chains to proteins.
GO:0006487	protein N-linked glycosylation	A protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the N4 atom of peptidyl-asparagine, the omega-N of arginine, or the N1' atom peptidyl-tryptophan.
GO:0006493	protein O-linked glycosylation	A protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the hydroxyl group of peptidyl-serine, peptidyl-threonine, peptidyl-hydroxylysine, or peptidyl-hydroxyproline, or via the phenol group of peptidyl-tyrosine, forming an O-glycan.
GO:0006029	proteoglycan metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving proteoglycans, any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans.
GO:0006096	glycolytic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate, with the concomitant production of a small amount of ATP and the reduction of NAD(P) to NAD(P)H. Glycolysis begins with the metabolism of a carbohydrate to generate products that can enter the pathway and ends with the production of pyruvate. Pyruvate may be converted to acetyl-coenzyme A, ethanol, lactate, or other small molecules.
GO:0008417	fucosyltransferase activity	Catalysis of the transfer of a fucosyl group to an acceptor molecule, typically another carbohydrate or a lipid.
GO:0008378	galactosyltransferase activity	Catalysis of the transfer of a galactosyl group to an acceptor molecule, typically another carbohydrate or a lipid.
GO:0006664	glycolipid metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving glycolipids, a class of 1,2-di-O-acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part (usually a mono-, di- or tri-saccharide). Some substances classified as bacterial glycolipids have the sugar group acylated by one or more fatty acids and the glycerol group may be absent.
GO:1900735	positive regulation of flocculation	Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of flocculation.
GO:0019377	glycolipid catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycolipid, a class of 1,2-di-O-acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part (usually a mono-, di- or tri-saccharide).
GO:0071666	Slit-Robo signaling complex	A protein-carbohydrate complex that consists of a transmembrane roundabout (Robo) receptor, an extracellular Slit ligand and heparin/heparan sulfate.
GO:0046527	glucosyltransferase activity	Catalysis of the transfer of a glucosyl group to an acceptor molecule, typically another carbohydrate or a lipid.
GO:0044812	fermentative hydrogen production	The fermentation of organic substances with a net release of hydrogen.
GO:0030112	glycocalyx	A carbohydrate rich layer at the outermost periphery of a cell.
GO:0071385	cellular response to glucocorticoid stimulus	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a glucocorticoid stimulus. Glucocorticoids are hormonal C21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol with the ability to bind with the cortisol receptor and trigger similar effects. Glucocorticoids act primarily on carbohydrate and protein metabolism, and have anti-inflammatory effects.
GO:0071384	cellular response to corticosteroid stimulus	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a corticosteroid hormone stimulus. A corticosteroid is a steroid hormone that is produced in the adrenal cortex. Corticosteroids are involved in a wide range of physiologic systems such as stress response, immune response and regulation of inflammation, carbohydrate metabolism, protein catabolism, blood electrolyte levels, and behavior. They include glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids.
GO:0071388	cellular response to cortisone stimulus	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a cortisone stimulus. Cortisone is a natural glucocorticoid steroid hormone that is metabolically convertible to cortisol. Cortisone is synthesized from cholesterol in the cortex of the adrenal gland under the stimulation of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH). The main physiological effect of cortisone is on carbohydrate metabolism; it can stimulate increased glucose release from the liver, increased liver glycogen synthesis, and decreased utilization of glucose by the tissues.
GO:0032190	acrosin binding	Binding to acrosin, a protein that is found in the acrosomes of sperm and possesses protease and carbohydrate binding activities.
GO:1990724	galectin complex	A homodimeric protein complex that is capable of binding a range of carbohydrates and is involved in anti-inflammatory and pro-apoptotic processes.
GO:0000030	mannosyltransferase activity	Catalysis of the transfer of a mannosyl group to an acceptor molecule, typically another carbohydrate or a lipid.
GO:0000128	flocculation	The reversible, non-sexual aggregation of single-celled organisms in suspension to form aggregates of many cells known as flocs.
GO:0015979	photosynthesis	The synthesis by organisms of organic chemical compounds, especially carbohydrates, from carbon dioxide (CO2) using energy obtained from light rather than from the oxidation of chemical compounds.
GO:0015977	carbon fixation	A metabolic process in which carbon (usually derived from carbon dioxide) is incorporated into organic compounds (usually carbohydrates).
GO:0015749	monosaccharide transmembrane transport	The process in which a monosaccharide is transported across a lipid bilayer, from one side of a membrane to the other. Monosaccharides are the simplest carbohydrates; they are polyhydric alcohols containing either an aldehyde or a keto group and between three to ten or more carbon atoms. They form the constitutional repeating units of oligo- and polysaccharides.
GO:0015139	alpha-ketoglutarate transmembrane transporter activity	Enables the transfer of alpha-ketoglutarate from one side of a membrane to the other. Alpha-ketoglutarate (or oxoglutarate) is a compound with important roles in carbohydrate and amino acid metabolism, especially in transamination reactions and as a component of the TCA cycle.
GO:0001889	liver development	The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the liver over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The liver is an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat, synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood, synthesizes vitamin A, detoxifies poisonous substances, stores glycogen, and breaks down worn-out erythrocytes.
GO:0001862	collectin binding	Binding to a collectin, a member of a group of structurally related pattern recognition molecules characterized by having a carbohydrate recognition domain of the C-type lectin family at the C-terminus and a collagenous domain at the N-terminus.
GO:0015574	trehalose transmembrane transporter activity	Enables the transfer of trehalose from one side of a membrane to the other. Trehalose is the disaccharide alpha-D-glucopyranosyl-alpha-D-glucopyranoside that acts of a reserve carbohydrate in certain fungi, algae and lichens.
