GO:1904142	negative regulation of carotenoid biosynthetic process	Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of carotenoid biosynthetic process.
GO:1904143	positive regulation of carotenoid biosynthetic process	Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of carotenoid biosynthetic process.
GO:0010437	9,10 (9', 10')-carotenoid-cleaving dioxygenase activity	Catalysis of the oxidative cleavage of carotenoids at the (9, 10) and/or (9', 10') double bond.
GO:0050588	apo-beta-carotenoid-14',13'-dioxygenase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: 8'-apo-beta-carotenol + O2 = (E,E)-7-hydroxy-6-methylhepta-3,5-dienal + 14'-apo-beta-carotenal.
GO:0010436	carotenoid dioxygenase activity	Catalysis of the oxidative cleavage of carotenoids.
GO:0106422	carotenoid isomerooxygenase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: Zeaxanthin + O2 = (3R)-11-cis-3-hydroxyretinal + (3R)-all-trans-3-hydroxyretinal.
GO:0043702	carotenoid vesicle	A tissue-specific cytoplasmic vesicle surrounded by a membrane half-leaflet within which carotenoid pigments are stored. Carotenoid vesicles are synthesized in xanthophores and erythrophore cells and are yellow, orange or red in appearance.
GO:0016116	carotenoid metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving carotenoids, tetraterpenoid compounds in which two units of 4 isoprenoid residues joined head-to-tail are themselves joined tail-to-tail.
GO:0016117	carotenoid biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carotenoids, tetraterpenoid compounds in which two units of 4 isoprenoid residues joined head-to-tail are themselves joined tail-to-tail.
GO:0016118	carotenoid catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carotenoids, tetraterpenoid compounds in which two units of 4 isoprenoid residues joined head-to-tail are themselves joined tail-to-tail.
GO:0046867	carotenoid transport	The directed movement of carotenoids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Carotenoids are tetraterpenoid compounds in which two units of 4 isoprenoid residues joined head-to-tail are themselves joined tail-to-tail.
GO:0046608	carotenoid isomerase activity	Catalysis of the isomerization of poly-cis-carotenoids to all-trans-carotenoids.
GO:0035238	vitamin A biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of the vitamin A compounds, retinol, retinal (retinaldehyde) and retinoic acid. Animals cannot synthesize vitamin A de novo, but form it through oxidative cleavage of carotenoids.
GO:0048773	erythrophore differentiation	The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an erythrophore cell. Erythrophores are pigment cells derived from the neural crest. They contain pteridine and/or carotenoid pigments in structures called pterinosomes or erythrosomes. This gives them an orange to red appearance.
GO:0050936	xanthophore differentiation	The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a xanthophore cell. Xanthophores are pigment cells derived from the neural crest. They contain pteridine and/or carotenoid pigments in structures called pterinosomes or xanthosomes. This makes them yellow to orange in appearance.
GO:0051738	xanthophyll binding	Binding to xanthophylls, any of several neutral yellow to orange carotenoid pigments containing oxygen.
GO:0009661	chromoplast organization	A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of the chromoplast. A chromoplast is a plastid containing pigments other than chlorophyll, usually yellow and orange carotenoid pigments.
GO:0009509	chromoplast	A plastid containing pigments other than chlorophyll, usually yellow and orange carotenoid pigments.
GO:0033385	geranylgeranyl diphosphate metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving geranylgeranyl diphosphate, a polyprenol compound involved in the biosynthesis of a variety of terpenoids including chlorophylls, carotenoids, tocopherols, plastoquinones, and the plant hormones gibberellins.
GO:0043290	apocarotenoid catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of apocarotenoids, a class of compounds derived from the oxidative cleavage of carotenoids, many of which are biologically important e.g. retinal and abscisic acid.
GO:0043289	apocarotenoid biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of apocarotenoids by the oxidative cleavage of carotenoids. Many apocarotenoids are biologically important e.g. retinal and abscisic acid.
GO:0043288	apocarotenoid metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving apocarotenoids, a class of compounds derived from the oxidative cleavage of carotenoids, many of which are biologically important e.g. retinal and abscisic acid.
GO:0043803	hydroxyneurosporene-O-methyltransferase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: demethylspheroidene + S-adenosyl-L-methionine = H+ + S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine + spheroidene.
GO:0045338	farnesyl diphosphate metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving farnesyl diphosphate, an intermediate in carotenoid, sesquiterpene, squalene and sterol biosynthesis, as well as a substrate in protein farnesylation.
GO:0016119	carotene metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving carotenes, hydrocarbon carotenoids.
GO:0016122	xanthophyll metabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways involving xanthophylls, oxygen-containing carotenoids.
GO:0016123	xanthophyll biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of xanthophylls, oxygen-containing carotenoids.
GO:0016124	xanthophyll catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of xanthophylls, oxygen-containing carotenoids.
GO:0016120	carotene biosynthetic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carotenes, hydrocarbon carotenoids.
GO:0016121	carotene catabolic process	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carotenes, hydrocarbon carotenoids.
GO:0016166	phytoene dehydrogenase activity	Catalysis of the dehydrogenation of phytoene to produce a carotenoid intermediate such as phytofluene.
GO:0046858	chlorosome	A large enclosure of aggregated pigment, typically bacteriochlorophyll c (BChl c), that acts as a light-harvesting antenna structure and is characteristic of green photosynthetic bacteria (e.g. Chlorobiaceae). The BChl aggregates are organized into lamellar elements by pigment-pigment rather than pigment-protein interactions. Chlorosomes also contain BChl a, carotenoids, quinones, lipids, and proteins, and are attached to the cytoplasmic membrane via a BChl a-containing protein baseplate.
GO:0071452	cellular response to singlet oxygen	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a singlet oxygen stimulus. Singlet oxygen is a dioxygen (O2) molecule in which two 2p electrons have similar spin. Singlet oxygen is more highly reactive than the form in which these electrons are of opposite spin, and it is produced in mutant chloroplasts lacking carotenoids and by leukocytes during metabolic burst.
GO:0000304	response to singlet oxygen	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a singlet oxygen stimulus. Singlet oxygen is a dioxygen (O2) molecule in which two 2p electrons have similar spin. Singlet oxygen is more highly reactive than the form in which these electrons are of opposite spin, and it is produced in mutant chloroplasts lacking carotenoids and by leukocytes during metabolic burst.
